docs/Guide/web-ifc/Tutorials/Hello world.mdx, before:

---
title: Hello World
sidebar_position: 1
---

import {IfcCard} from "../../../../src/components/Card/InfoCard";

## 🚧👷‍♀️ Under construction 👷‍♂️🚧

<IfcCard icon="💙" title="Thanks for your interest in IFC.js!">
    We are building this section of the documentation right now. In the meantime, you can join the <a href="https://discord.gg/FXfyR4XrKT">Discord channel</a> and ask us any questions you need to implement IFC.js or to join the project.
</IfcCard>

## Introduction

  ⚡
Creating a BIM application with IFC.js is very easy. You can find the complete project of the guide [here](https://github.com/IFCjs/hello-world/tree/main/examples/web-ifc/ifc-to-json/frontend) or [here](https://github.com/IFCjs/hello-world/tree/main/examples/web-ifc/ifc-to-json/node) and the deployed application [here](https://ifcjs.github.io/hello-world/examples/web-ifc/ifc-to-json/frontend). You only need to have <a href="https://nodejs.org/en/">Node.js</a> and any IDE installed to follow the steps below. Also, if you don't have any IFC files to follow along, you can get some [here](https://github.com/IFCjs/test-ifc-files).

  <IfcAlert>
Using IFC.js requires a basic knowledge of JavaScript. If you have no previous experience with JavaScript, you can learn more on [javascript.info](https://javascript.info) or [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript).
  </IfcAlert>

You might be wondering why use `web-ifc` if there is `web-ifc-viewer` and `web-ifc-three`. As stated in the [Introduction](../Introduction.mdx), `web-ifc` is **lightest** and **most flexible** module of IFC.js that **does not implement a 3d viewer**. This means you can run it in non-browser environment like Node.js, Deno, or even Edge Functions as long as they support WebAssembly. Some `web-ifc` use cases are:

* Build SaaS or backend service that analyze, convert, or modify IFC file
* Integrate your own custom renderer with `web-ifc` (i.e rendering IFC model as voxel, make interactive floor-plan from IFC files)
* Write automated tests for validating IFC model
* and many more

  🐣
This minimal tutorial will be done with Vanilla JavaScript, without using any backend/frontend frameworks like React, Express, etc. However, the same steps can be adapted and applied to any of these use cases.

## Setting up the project

### Install libraries

  👩‍🏫
The first thing to do is to create an empty folder and start a new npm project with the command `npm init`. This will generate a `package.json` file containing some data such as the project name, version, commands and dependencies. In addition, the following dependencies must be installed with npm:

```bash
    //Install IFC.js
    npm i web-ifc

    // Install a bundler: we will use rollup.js for this guide
    npm i rollup --save-dev
    npm i @rollup/plugin-node-resolve --save-dev
```

  📝
The next step is to create an HTML file named `index.html` as the main document of the application. The HTML will have:
- A **button/input element** for opening single IFC file.
- A **div element** on the left that print IFC file content.
- A **div element** on the right for displaying allIFC properties as JSON.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
      <meta charset="UTF-8">
      <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
      <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
      <title>IFC.js</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="file-opener">
        <button class="basic-button" id="file-opener-button">Open IFC</button>
    </div>
    <input class="invisible" id="file-input" type="file">
    <div class="general-container">
        <div class="container" id="left-container"></div>
        <div class="separator"></div>
        <div class="container" id="right-container"><pre id="json"></pre></div>
    </div>
    <script src="bundle.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```
Note that the `<input>` element is invisible.

### Adding style

  🎨
This `style.css` file will properly layout the page:

```css
*{
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
    box-sizing: border-box;
}

html, body {
    overflow: hidden;
    background-color: #F3F4F6;
}

.general-container {
    background-color: white;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    top: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    position: absolute;
    margin: 2rem;
    display: flex;
}

.container {
    padding: 1rem;
    flex-grow: 1;
    flex-shrink: 1;
    flex-basis: 0;
    width:50px;
    word-wrap: break-word;
    overflow-y: scroll;
}

.separator {
    border: 2px solid #F3F4F6;
}

.file-opener {
    position: absolute;
    z-index: 1;
    width: 100%;
    display: flex;
    justify-content: flex-end;
    top: 3rem;
    right: 4rem;
}

.basic-button {
    background-color: #F3F4F6;
    padding: 1rem;
    border-radius: 1rem;
    border: none;
    transition: all 0.1s ease-in-out;
    box-shadow: 0 0 0 0 #e6e6e6;
    margin: 1rem;
}

.basic-button:hover {
    background-color: white;
    box-shadow: 0 10px 20px 8px #e6e6e6;
}

.basic-button:active {
    background-color: #F3F4F6;
}

.invisible {
    visibility: collapse;
}
```

### Accessing HTML element in JavaScript

  📁
To accesss all declared element in `index.html`, we need to add this line in the `app.js` file:

```js
const button = document.getElementById("file-opener-button");
button.addEventListener('click', () => input.click());

const leftContainer = document.getElementById("left-container");
const saveButton = document.getElementById("save-button");

const json = document.getElementById("json");
```

Notice that we hook button click event to trigger input click. This will make `<button>` element like file opener.

### Bundling and WebAssembly

🎯📁 As for the next steps, you can follow [Hello World](../../Hello%20world.mdx) guide to create `rollup.config.js` files and also copy the necessary `.wasm` files from `node_modules\web-ifc`.

## Loading IFC files

<!-- TODO -->

### Loading user's models

  🏠
<!-- TODO -->

#### from browser

<!-- TODO -->

```js
import {IfcAPI} from "web-ifc/web-ifc-api";

const ifcapi = new IfcAPI();

const input = document.getElementById("file-input");
input.addEventListener(
    "change",
    (changed) => {
        const reader = new FileReader();
        reader.onload = () => LoadFile(reader.result);
        reader.readAsText(changed.target.files[0]);
    },
    false
);

async function LoadFile(ifcAsText) {
    leftContainer.innerHTML = ifcAsText.replace(/(?:\r\n|\r|\n)/g, '<br>');
    const uint8array = new TextEncoder().encode(ifcAsText);
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(uint8array);

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}

async function OpenIfc(ifcAsText) {
    await ifcapi.Init();
    return ifcapi.OpenModel(ifcAsText);
}
```

  🎣
Keep in mind that if you haven't saved the wasm files in the root of served files of the project, you'll need to specify its location with `SetWasmPath`. For instance, if we had them stored in a folder called `wasm` contained in a folder called `static` in the root of the project, we would do the following:

```js
  ifcapi.SetWasmPath("static/wasm/");
```

#### from Node.js

<!-- TODO -->

```js
const WebIFC = require('web-ifc/web-ifc-api-node');
const fs = require("fs");

const ifcapi = new WebIFC.IfcAPI();

async function LoadFile(filename)
{
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(filename);

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}

async function OpenIfc(filename) {
    const ifcData = fs.readFileSync(filename);
    await ifcapi.Init();
    return ifcapi.OpenModel(ifcData);
}
```

### Loading our models

  🤔
<!-- TODO -->

#### from URL

<!-- TODO -->
Usually this is a use case when you building a web page/app. However, it also useful when you write script or service for processing IFC files from cloud storage like Dropbox/GoogleDrive and Amazon S3.

#### from file system

<!-- TODO -->
Only works on Node.js or Deno.

## Reading all properties

  🔂
After we get the `modelID`, we can now display all the properties in JSON format.

```js
function GetAllItems(modelID) {
    const allItems = {};
    const lines = ifcapi.GetAllLines(modelID);
    getAllItemsFromLines(modelID, lines, allItems);
    return allItems;
}

function getAllItemsFromLines(modelID, lines, allItems) {
    for (let i = 1; i <= lines.size(); i++) {
        try {
            saveProperties(modelID, lines, allItems, i);
        } catch (e) {
            console.log(e);
        }
    }
}

function saveProperties(modelID, lines, allItems, index) {
    const itemID = lines.get(index);
    const props = ifcapi.GetLine(modelID, itemID);
    props.type = props.constructor.name;
    allItems[itemID] = props;
}
```
<!-- TODO -->

Now we can integrate it into `LoadFile` function

* for browser

```js
async function LoadFile(ifcAsText) {
    leftContainer.innerHTML = ifcAsText.replace(/(?:\r\n|\r|\n)/g, '<br>');
    const uint8array = new TextEncoder().encode(ifcAsText);
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(uint8array);

    /// read all properties and display it in JSON format ///
    const allItems = GetAllItems(modelID);
    const result = JSON.stringify(allItems, undefined, 2);
    json.textContent  = result;
    //////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}
```

* for Node.js

```js
async function LoadFile(filename)
{
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(filename);

    /// read all properties and save it as ifc-properties.json ///
    const allItems = GetAllItems(modelID);
    fs.writeFileSync('ifc-properties.json', JSON.stringify(allItems));
    //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}
```

# Conclusion

  🎉
Congratulations! <!-- TODO -->

  <IfcCard icon="🔥" title="What else can I do with IFC.js?">
<!-- TODO -->
  </IfcCard>

  ⏩
In the next tutorial we will learn how to query properties.

Commit message:

Add example on loading user model in Node.js

docs/Guide/web-ifc/Tutorials/Hello world.mdx, after:

---
title: Hello World
sidebar_position: 1
---

import {IfcCard} from "../../../../src/components/Card/InfoCard";

## 🚧👷‍♀️ Under construction 👷‍♂️🚧

<IfcCard icon="💙" title="Thanks for your interest in IFC.js!">
    We are building this section of the documentation right now. In the meantime, you can join the <a href="https://discord.gg/FXfyR4XrKT">Discord channel</a> and ask us any questions you need to implement IFC.js or to join the project.
</IfcCard>

## Introduction

  ⚡
Creating a BIM application with IFC.js is very easy. You can find the complete project of the guide [here](https://github.com/IFCjs/hello-world/tree/main/examples/web-ifc/ifc-to-json/frontend) or [here](https://github.com/IFCjs/hello-world/tree/main/examples/web-ifc/ifc-to-json/node) and the deployed application [here](https://ifcjs.github.io/hello-world/examples/web-ifc/ifc-to-json/frontend). You only need to have <a href="https://nodejs.org/en/">Node.js</a> and any IDE installed to follow the steps below. Also, if you don't have any IFC files to follow along, you can get some [here](https://github.com/IFCjs/test-ifc-files).

  <IfcAlert>
Using IFC.js requires a basic knowledge of JavaScript. If you have no previous experience with JavaScript, you can learn more on [javascript.info](https://javascript.info) or [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript).
  </IfcAlert>

You might be wondering why use `web-ifc` if there is `web-ifc-viewer` and `web-ifc-three`. As stated in the [Introduction](../Introduction.mdx), `web-ifc` is **lightest** and **most flexible** module of IFC.js that **does not implement a 3d viewer**. This means you can run it in non-browser environment like Node.js, Deno, or even Edge Functions as long as they support WebAssembly. Some `web-ifc` use cases are:

* Build SaaS or backend service that analyze, convert, or modify IFC file
* Integrate your own custom renderer with `web-ifc` (i.e rendering IFC model as voxel, make interactive floor-plan from IFC files)
* Write automated tests for validating IFC model
* and many more

  🐣
This minimal tutorial will be done with Vanilla JavaScript, without using any backend/frontend frameworks like React, Express, etc. However, the same steps can be adapted and applied to any of these use cases.

## Setting up the project

### Install libraries

  👩‍🏫
The first thing to do is to create an empty folder and start a new npm project with the command `npm init`. This will generate a `package.json` file containing some data such as the project name, version, commands and dependencies. In addition, the following dependencies must be installed with npm:

```bash
    //Install IFC.js
    npm i web-ifc

    // Install a bundler: we will use rollup.js for this guide
    npm i rollup --save-dev
    npm i @rollup/plugin-node-resolve --save-dev
```

  📝
The next step is to create an HTML file named `index.html` as the main document of the application. The HTML will have:
- A **button/input element** for opening single IFC file.
- A **div element** on the left that print IFC file content.
- A **div element** on the right for displaying allIFC properties as JSON.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
      <meta charset="UTF-8">
      <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
      <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
      <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
      <title>IFC.js</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div class="file-opener">
        <button class="basic-button" id="file-opener-button">Open IFC</button>
    </div>
    <input class="invisible" id="file-input" type="file">
    <div class="general-container">
        <div class="container" id="left-container"></div>
        <div class="separator"></div>
        <div class="container" id="right-container"><pre id="json"></pre></div>
    </div>
    <script src="bundle.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```
Note that the `<input>` element is invisible.

### Adding style

  🎨
This `style.css` file will properly layout the page:

```css
*{
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
    box-sizing: border-box;
}

html, body {
    overflow: hidden;
    background-color: #F3F4F6;
}

.general-container {
    background-color: white;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    top: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    position: absolute;
    margin: 2rem;
    display: flex;
}

.container {
    padding: 1rem;
    flex-grow: 1;
    flex-shrink: 1;
    flex-basis: 0;
    width:50px;
    word-wrap: break-word;
    overflow-y: scroll;
}

.separator {
    border: 2px solid #F3F4F6;
}

.file-opener {
    position: absolute;
    z-index: 1;
    width: 100%;
    display: flex;
    justify-content: flex-end;
    top: 3rem;
    right: 4rem;
}

.basic-button {
    background-color: #F3F4F6;
    padding: 1rem;
    border-radius: 1rem;
    border: none;
    transition: all 0.1s ease-in-out;
    box-shadow: 0 0 0 0 #e6e6e6;
    margin: 1rem;
}

.basic-button:hover {
    background-color: white;
    box-shadow: 0 10px 20px 8px #e6e6e6;
}

.basic-button:active {
    background-color: #F3F4F6;
}

.invisible {
    visibility: collapse;
}
```

### Accessing HTML element in JavaScript

  📁
To accesss all declared element in `index.html`, we need to add this line in the `app.js` file:

```js
const button = document.getElementById("file-opener-button");
button.addEventListener('click', () => input.click());

const leftContainer = document.getElementById("left-container");
const saveButton = document.getElementById("save-button");

const json = document.getElementById("json");
```

Notice that we hook button click event to trigger input click. This will make `<button>` element like file opener.

### Bundling and WebAssembly

🎯📁 As for the next steps, you can follow [Hello World](../../Hello%20world.mdx) guide to create `rollup.config.js` files and also copy the necessary `.wasm` files from `node_modules\web-ifc`.

## Loading IFC files

<!-- TODO -->

### Loading user's models

  🏠
<!-- TODO -->

#### from browser

<!-- TODO -->

```js
import {IfcAPI} from "web-ifc/web-ifc-api";

const ifcapi = new IfcAPI();

const input = document.getElementById("file-input");
input.addEventListener(
    "change",
    (changed) => {
        const reader = new FileReader();
        reader.onload = () => LoadFile(reader.result);
        reader.readAsText(changed.target.files[0]);
    },
    false
);

async function LoadFile(ifcAsText) {
    leftContainer.innerHTML = ifcAsText.replace(/(?:\r\n|\r|\n)/g, '<br>');
    const uint8array = new TextEncoder().encode(ifcAsText);
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(uint8array);

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}

async function OpenIfc(ifcAsText) {
    await ifcapi.Init();
    return ifcapi.OpenModel(ifcAsText);
}
```

  🎣
Keep in mind that if you haven't saved the wasm files in the root of served files of the project, you'll need to specify its location with `SetWasmPath`. For instance, if we had them stored in a folder called `wasm` contained in a folder called `static` in the root of the project, we would do the following:

```js
  ifcapi.SetWasmPath("static/wasm/");
```

#### from Node.js

<!-- TODO -->

```js
const WebIFC = require('web-ifc/web-ifc-api-node');
const fs = require("fs");

const ifcapi = new WebIFC.IfcAPI();

async function LoadFile(filename)
{
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(filename);

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}

async function OpenIfc(filename) {
    const ifcData = fs.readFileSync(filename);
    await ifcapi.Init();
    return ifcapi.OpenModel(ifcData);
}
```

Now we can ask CLI user from terminal on where to load the IFC file

```js
LoadFile(process.argv[2])
```

then we can run our script by providing the path of the IFC file

```
node main.js assets/mymodel.ifc
```

now it will print the `modelID` of `assets/mymodel.ifc` in the terminal.

### Loading our models

  🤔
<!-- TODO -->

#### from URL

<!-- TODO -->
Usually this is a use case when you building a web page/app. However, it also useful when you write script or service for processing IFC files from cloud storage like Dropbox/GoogleDrive and Amazon S3.

#### from file system

<!-- TODO -->
Only works on Node.js or Deno.

## Reading all properties

  🔂
After we get the `modelID`, we can now display all the properties in JSON format.

```js
function GetAllItems(modelID) {
    const allItems = {};
    const lines = ifcapi.GetAllLines(modelID);
    getAllItemsFromLines(modelID, lines, allItems);
    return allItems;
}

function getAllItemsFromLines(modelID, lines, allItems) {
    for (let i = 1; i <= lines.size(); i++) {
        try {
            saveProperties(modelID, lines, allItems, i);
        } catch (e) {
            console.log(e);
        }
    }
}

function saveProperties(modelID, lines, allItems, index) {
    const itemID = lines.get(index);
    const props = ifcapi.GetLine(modelID, itemID);
    props.type = props.constructor.name;
    allItems[itemID] = props;
}
```
<!-- TODO -->

Now we can integrate it into `LoadFile` function

* for browser

```js
async function LoadFile(ifcAsText) {
    leftContainer.innerHTML = ifcAsText.replace(/(?:\r\n|\r|\n)/g, '<br>');
    const uint8array = new TextEncoder().encode(ifcAsText);
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(uint8array);

    /// read all properties and display it in JSON format ///
    const allItems = GetAllItems(modelID);
    const result = JSON.stringify(allItems, undefined, 2);
    json.textContent  = result;
    //////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}
```

* for Node.js

```js
async function LoadFile(filename)
{
    const modelID = await OpenIfc(filename);

    /// read all properties and save it as ifc-properties.json ///
    const allItems = GetAllItems(modelID);
    fs.writeFileSync('ifc-properties.json', JSON.stringify(allItems));
    //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

    ifcapi.CloseModel(modelID);
}
```

# Conclusion

  🎉
Congratulations! <!-- TODO -->

  <IfcCard icon="🔥" title="What else can I do with IFC.js?">
<!-- TODO -->
  </IfcCard>

  ⏩
In the next tutorial we will learn how to query properties.
